the Hamas ran Health Ministry in Gaza
says at least 12 people have been killed
in an Israeli air strike in the
Palestinian territory a spokesman for
the ministry said the strike hit the
Indonesian Hospital in the north of the
Gaza Strip the report comes after
Israel's military carried out another
night of operations inside Gaza
explosions and flares were seen in the
south of the region Israel's Army says
its missile defenses system also shot
down a number of Rock it's coming from
Gaza the Army says it's stepping up its
operations by targeting additional
neighborhoods now let's get more on this
with DW correspondent Tanya kma joining
us from Jerusalem Tanya has Israel
reacted to reports of the strike on the
hospital
today we have not seen a statement yet
on the strike of the hospital where uh
we we've seen some footage that
reportedly shows heavy fighting around
uh the Indonesian hospital that is in
the north heavy fighting has also been
reported uh from other areas as Israel's
Army is uh reportedly moving uh you know
even deeper inside some of the
neighborhoods uh broadening uh the uh
also the operation uh of the ground
forces but of course air strikes are
also uh continuing they also have been
reported air strikes in the south of the
Gaza Strip uh namely in Rafa this is the
city on the southern end of uh the Gaza
Strip and we are also hearing you know
about the humanitarian situation by
United Nations agencies they're saying
that about 1.7 million people out of the
2.2 million residents in the Gaza Strip
are now on the Move have been displaced
uh most of them many of them I have to
say went to the South for safer areas
but air bombardment of course there is
also uh ongoing and there's also concern
now for another matter because you know
there's colder weather now we've seen
also pictures coming out of Gaza pouring
rain and many people are there in
shelters that are overcrowded so this is
of course also a concern for the
humanitarian uh stakeholders there um
which is already very dire um until now
now uh the hostage negotiations seem to
be underway have you heard anything
about any progress on these
negotiations well there have been a lot
of reports in the past days uh also
we've been hearing uh from Qatar from
officials there saying uh that there are
ups and downs uh in the negotiations but
that the sides are edging closer to a
potential deal but nothing seems to be
really tangible right now so it's only a
speculation how such a deal are could
look like qat is the main mediator
between uh Israel and Hamas and also
United States and Egypt are a
stakeholders as we understand in these
negotiations so we understand from some
reports there could be up to 50 hostages
mainly women elderly and children that
could be released uh they should also be
uh uh that's a demand we understand by
Hamas a a pause in hostilities because
they also have to get all the hostages
safe
uh uh out and we also understand that
Hamas is asking but these are all
unconfirmed reports I have to stress uh
that uh all female prisoners and
children currently being held in Israeli
prisons uh should be released but again
you know for the moment uh we know that
negotiations are ongoing but it's
unclear uh when they will materialize
into a
deal DS Tanya K there reporting from
Jerusalem thank you Tanya
Israel has released video it says proofs
that Hamas militants used gaza's alifa
Hospital in connection with the October
7th Terror attacks it says the footage
shows hostages being brought into the
hospital Israel's Defense Forces have
also released a video of a tunnel
running under the hospital officials
from the Hamas ran health authority deny
that alifa sits at top a Hamas command
and control center
the Israel Defense Forces have released
this footage they say shows a tunnel
under Gaza alifa Hospital the IDF says
the 55 M long shaft ends with a blast
prooof door but did not say what is
behind it this footage has not been
independently
verified the IDF also released video of
what it says are hostages taken from
Israel entering the hospital the footage
appears to to be date stamped October
the 7th the day of the Hamas
attacks the Israel Defense
Forces has a moral obligation to bring
everyone everyone of our hostages home
we will not rest until we
do Hamas was hiding and murdering our
hostages in chifa hospital Hamas was
building Terror tunnels underneath shifa
Hospital ham is designated as a
terrorist group by the US and EU among
others military experts say the way
Hamas operates makes it difficult for
the IDF to provide proof of their
operations Hamas denies Israel's claim
that they have used the hospital as
cover for a military command center a
claim that the hospital staff also
deny this footage was released by the
Hamas run Gaza Health Ministry after the
raid on shifa since October 7th
thousands of gazin have fled to
hospitals in the hope of finding
protection from Israel's bombardment
Israel's attacks on alifa have drawn
Global condemnation the World Health
Organization has called it a death zone
doctors say Israeli troops smashed
medical equipment and are restricting
their access to
water unfortunately we lost two patients
overnight this night uh so it's to
like you know nonhuman place to live in
it's totally full of rubbish waste
everywhere we are not allowed to get out
of the buildings the Israelis keep uh
you know just promising that they will
provide us with more and more but it's
not happening International groups
including the World Health Organization
say Israel's order to evacuate patients
is a death sentence some of those who
have tried to leave the area have come
under attack including a doctor's
Without Borders Convoy many patients and
staff are still stuck inside alifa with
little to know water food or
medicine and for more of the
humanitarian situation in Gaza Let's
cross to Margaret Harris she's the
spokesperson for the World Health
Organization Margaret the who has been
in alifa supporting evacuations there
what's the situation
there so there still remain over 250
patients and 20 health workers at alifa
and they all all are desperate they all
request immediate evacuation because the
hospital can no longer function in any
shape or form as a hospital no food no
medicine no water um and as you heard
the description of the waste filling the
corridors because they can't go outside
for fear of being harmed uh so we we're
working today to get the rest out the
priority is going to be G is being given
to the 20 to dialysis patients those are
people who need to have hemodialysis
every few days to clean the toxins from
their blood cuz they're in kidney
failure and without that they will die
and there are also 50 patients with
spinal injuries uh and again they are
people who need complex care which is
not in any shape now available at alifa
but also need very complex uh and
careful moving to ensure that you don't
make their conditions worse so that is
what we're doing now and and and I would
just like to also say we re reaffirm our
respect for the extraordinary dedication
and professionalism and humanity and
courage of the health staff who stayed
there they've continued to care for
their patients under unimaginable
conditions now there have also been
reports of strikes at other hospitals in
the Gaza Strip uh what's your team there
telling
you so we're hearing the reports as well
uh that currently there are reports we
are only hearing from the media so we
you know we we have a verification
system but again no attack on a hospital
or health care it is never acceptable
and what I'd like to make absolutely
clear this is not acceptable Health Care
can never be a Target it is a neutral
Safe Haven or should be still Israel
says that Gaza that that Hamas is using
hospitals what do you say to
that so again you know I'm not going to
go into he said she said our job is to
look at the hospital we know what
happens above ground what we see above
ground was the largest most advanced
Hospital in the strip which has now been
reduced to a not a building a
non-functioning building um where
Healthcare cannot be provided currently
uh uh and we know that what was going on
before was Advanced Health Care and
that's
it we've seen um some more un a trucks
Crossing into Gaza from Egypt has that
made any difference
yet it's a glimmer of hope we want to
see much more we need a huge amount of
Aid to come in we particularly need the
fuel to come in because we need the
hospital generators to be powered we
need the sewage systems to be powered we
need the water and sanitation to work as
I'm sure you know the the rains have
come the winter weather has come so the
problems with the failure of the sewage
system to work because of the lack of
power will lead to massive outbreaks of
of waterborne gastrointestinal diseases
which we are very very concerned
about the wh's Margaret Harris there
thank you very
much thank you very much for having me